# PRICE - Personalized Recursive Intelligent Cost Estimation for Rare Disease Diagnosis

This React program aims to develop an interactive visualization for personalized cost estimation in rare disease diagnosis. 


## Getting Started

In the project directory, run:
```
npm install
npm start
```
The app will be launched in the development mode. \
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to use the App in your browser.

## Use the App
This App allows for a dynamic and interactive way to visualize and manipulate tree structures.

### Node Types and Attributes

There are five types of nodes in the tree:

1. **Start Node**: Root of the graph.
2. **Decision Nodes**: Attributes include *name, expected_cost*.
3. **Action Nodes**: Attributes include *name, probability, cost, expected_cost*.
4. **Outcome Nodes**: Attributes include *name, probability, cost, expected_cost*.
5. **Exit Nodes**: No specific attributes. It is a special type of action node.

### Graph Building Options

1. **Add Node**:
   - In general, the nodes follows "Decision-Action-Outcome" logic
   - But decision and outcome can be hidden.
   - Can not add node after exit node
   - Sometime, it depends on the children. e.g. if there is an outcome already exist for action, only outcome is allowed to be added.

2. **Delete Node**:
   - All nodes can be deleted except for the start node.
   - When a node is deleted, all its descendant nodes are also deleted.

3. **Edit Node**:
   - Every time a node is editted, a modal popup appears, allowing the user to fill in the details about that node.

### Update Expect Cost
Expected cost at each node will be updated by recursively calculate the expected cost at its descendants and sum them together.

## Acknowledge

The init code is generated by ChatGPT 4o. The program is powered by [react-d3-tree](https://bkrem.github.io/react-d3-tree/). [Material UI](https://mui.com/material-ui/) is used for UI development. This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app). The program supports the use of external libraries if available. 

## To do list
- probability disabled (must be 1 under certain scenarios)

